Refactor and optimize the entire timeline visualization implementation inside templates/results.html and any related JS/CSS. The goal is to produce a clean, modular, consulting-quality, high-performance timeline visualization system.

Apply the following:

1. Clean & Modularize the Code

Remove duplicated Mermaid configuration blocks.

Move all Mermaid initialization code into a single <script> at the bottom.

Create a dedicated Mermaid theme object and apply it consistently.

Extract large inline CSS blocks into Tailwind utility classes or a <style> block with clear scoping.

2. Improve Maintainability

Break the visualization section into clearly commented sections:

Header

Legend

Timeline Container

Mermaid Gantt Code

Export/Download Buttons

Supporting Scripts

Add descriptive comments explaining:

What each component does

How tasks are mapped to phases

How dependencies and tooltips work

How export-to-PNG logic works

3. Standardize Style & Layout

Align all colors, padding, spacing, and card designs with the app’s Tailwind design language.

Use consistent spacing units (e.g., p-6, mt-4, gap-4).

Ensure timeline has consistent max-width and centered layout.

4. Improve Mermaid Gantt Readability

Enhance the visual clarity of the timeline by:

Using consistent date formatting.

Increasing row height and bar padding.

Ensuring milestone icons do not overlap.

Adding better separation between phases.

5. Add a Reusable Data Model (Optional Enhancement)

Refactor the Gantt chart tasks into a JavaScript object array at the top of the script.

Example:

const tasks = [
  {
    name: "Customer Data Analysis",
    phase: "Foundation",
    start: "2024-01-01",
    end: "2024-03-15",
    impact: "Medium",
    complexity: "Low",
    tooltip: "Build baseline analytics models to understand customer segments."
  },
  ...
];


Then dynamically generate Mermaid text from this object.
This makes roadmap generation scalable and easier to modify in the future.

6. Enhance Performance

Lazy-load Mermaid only when the result page is opened.

Defer rendering until the container is visible.

Reduce unnecessary DOM operations.

7. Ensure Accessibility

Add ARIA labels to buttons (including export buttons).

Check contrast ratios for color-coded phases.

Ensure timeline can be navigated via keyboard.

8. Add Error Handling

If Mermaid fails to render, show a user-friendly error card and provide a “Retry Render” button.

Validate date formatting before rendering.

9. Final Output Requirements

When the refactor is complete, the timeline section should meet these standards:

Consulting-grade visual polish

Clear separation of concerns

Easier future updates (phases, tasks, themes)

Better performance and accessibility

Cleaner, readable, commented code structure

Make all changes directly in templates/results.html, plus add supporting JS/CSS in the appropriate places.